docs(borealis): initial borealis CLI docs DOC-456 (#918)
armory/docs: content/en/borealis/quick-start/borealis-cli-get-started.md

---
title: Get Started with the CLI to Deploy Apps
linktitle: Get Started - CLI
description: >

>   The Borealis CLI is a CLI for interacting with Project Borealis. With the CLI, you can manually deploy apps directly from your command line.

Reviewer: As an engineer, I wouldn't want to encourage users to deploy from their own command line. The below rephrase better targets the behavior we want (even if deploying from a laptop is still implied!)

```suggestion
  The Borealis CLI is a CLI for interacting with Project Borealis. With the CLI, you can integrate into your existing CI/CD tooling.
```

Reviewer: Reading through the integration page though, I'm less sure about this rephrase. Ultimately I don't think we should encourage users to deploy from their CLI. Perhaps something about checking in on the status of deployments and such?

Author: I suspect you're right. I should do more to highlight the fact that deploying from their CLI is really just a POC/test case to familiarize them with it before they automate it

exlcude_search: true
---

> Before you start, make sure that someone at your organization has completed the [Get Started with Project Borealis]({{< ref "borealis-org-get-started" >}}). That guide describes how to prepare your deployment target so that you can use the Borealis CLI to deploy apps to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## {{% heading "prereq" %}}
Make sure you have completed the [Get Started with Project Borealis]({{< ref "borealis-org-get-started" >}}) guide, which describes how to prepare your deployment target for use with the Borealis CLI.
```

## Register for Armory's hosted cloud services

{{< include "aurora-borealis/borealis-login-creds" >}}

## Install the Borealis CLI

> The automated install involves installing an Armory Version Manager (AVM) that handles downloading, installing, and updating the Borealis CLI. Using this install method gives you  to way to keep the Borealis CLI updated as well as the ability to switch versions from the command line. The manual installation method involves downloading a specific release from GitHub and installing that release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use an automated process to install the Borealis CLI or you can install it manually. The automated process involves installing an Armory Version Manager (AVM) that handles downloading, installing, and updating the Borealis CLI. Using this install method gives you  to way to keep the Borealis CLI updated as well as the ability to switch versions from the command line. The manual installation method involves downloading a specific release from GitHub and installing that release.
```

{{< tabs name="borealis-cli-install" >}}

{{% tab name="Automated" %}}

> 1. Download the [AVM](https://github.com/armory/avm/releases/) for your operating system. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download the [AVM](https://github.com/armory/avm/releases/) for your Linux or Mac operating system. 
```

2. Give AVM execute permissions. For example (on macOS):
   
   ```bash
   chmod +x avm-darwin-amd64
   ```

> 3. Move AVM to an on your `PATH`. For example (on macOS):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Move AVM to a directory on your `PATH`. For example (on macOS):
```

   
   ```bash
   mv avm-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/avm
   ```

4. Run the following command to install the Borealis CLI:
   
   ```bash
   avm install
   ```

>    The command installs the Borealis CLI and provides a directory that you need to add to your path, such as `/Users/milton/.avm/bin`. For information about the commands available as part of AVM, run `avm --help`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The command installs the Borealis CLI and creates a `<home>/.avm/bin`directory that you need to add to your path.  Run `avm --help` for information about available commands.
```

5. Run the following command to verify that the Borealis CLI is installed:
   
   ```bash
   armory
   ```

   The command returns basic information about the  Borealis CLI, including available commands.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Manual" %}}

> 1. Download the [latest release](https://github.com/armory/armory-cli/releases) for your operating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download the [latest release](https://github.com/armory/armory-cli/releases) for your Linux or Mac operating system.
```

2. Save the file in a directory that is on your `PATH`, such as `/usr/local/bin`.
3. Rename the downloaded file to `armory`.
4. Give the file execute permission:

   ```bash
   chmod +x /usr/local/bin/armory
   ```

> 5. Verfiy that you can run the Borealis CLI:

Author: ```suggestion
5. Verify that you can run the Borealis CLI:
```

   ```bash
   armory 
   ```

   The command returns basic information about the CLI, including available commands.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Manually deploy apps using the CLI

Before you can deploy, make sure that you have the client ID and secret for your deployment target available. These are used to authenticate Armory's hosted cloud services to the target cluster. The credentials were created and tied to your deployment target as part of the [Get Started with Project Borealis]({{< ref "borealis-org-get-started" >}}) guide.

> Since you are using the Borealis CLI, you do not need to have  service account credentials for authenticating your CLI to the cloud services. Instead, you will log in manually with your user account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since you are using the Borealis CLI, you do not need to have  service account credentials for authenticating your CLI to the cloud services. Instead, you log in manually with your user account.
```
